Update Shimmer Outputs and modify data transfer (#752)
iota-wiki/iota-wiki: shimmer/learn/outputs.md

and [features](#features).

## Output Types

### Basic Output

The simplest output is the basic output. At the minimum, you will need to specify an address and amount of tokens.
However, you can customize this basic output to include a variety
of [features](#features) and [unlock conditions](#unlock-conditions).

### NFT Output

You can mint NFTs by creating NFT outputs and sending
an [NFT transaction](https://wiki.iota-community.org/shimmer/introduction/develop/explanations/ledger/nft). You can
define immutable metadata and a [verified issuer](#issuer) while you create it.

### Alias Output

An [alias](https://wiki.iota-community.org/shimmer/introduction/develop/explanations/ledger/alias) output is essentially
a UTXO state machine that stores the state second layer smart contract chains and allows
for two controllers, which can be rotated and create custom native tokens linked to the alias address.

### Foundry Output

You can create a foundry output to control the supply of
your [native tokens](https://wiki.iota-community.org/shimmer/introduction/develop/explanations/ledger/foundry).

## Unlock Conditions

### Address

The most traditional unlock condition is

> the [address](https://wiki.iota-community.org/shimmer/introduction/develop/explanations/what_is_stardust/unlock_conditions#address)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the [address](/introduction/develop/explanations/what_is_stardust/unlock_conditions#address)
```

.
Addresses can only unlock outputs with their signatures.

### Storage Deposit Return

Due to the [storage deposit rules](welcome.md#storage-deposits), you cannot create transactions smaller than the minimum
deposit. However, with the storage deposit return unlock condition, you can specify an amount that will need to be
returned once the funds are unlocked. This way, you can send micro-transactions as small as you want. You will only need
to send the minimum deposit, which will be returned once the micro-transaction is processed.

### Expiration

In Shimmer, you can define

> an [expiration date and time](https://wiki.iota-community.org/shimmer/introduction/develop/explanations/what_is_stardust/unlock_conditions#expiration)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an [expiration date and time](/introduction/develop/explanations/what_is_stardust/unlock_conditions#expiration)
```

for an output. This way, if the output isn't consumed by the expiration

> date, it will be returned to your account. This is particularly useful if you want to cancel a transfer if a deadline

Reviewer: To be precise. It would have never changed ownership. But I guess we can keep this as high level description

isn't met.

## Timelock

Similar to the [expiration unlock condition](#expiration), you can add

> a [timelock](https://wiki.iota-community.org/shimmer/introduction/develop/explanations/what_is_stardust/unlock_conditions#timelock)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a [timelock](/introduction/develop/explanations/what_is_stardust/unlock_conditions#timelock)
```

to outputs. This means that the output
will be locked until a specific date and time.

## Features

Outputs in Shimmer

> have [new features](https://wiki.iota-community.org/shimmer/introduction/develop/explanations/what_is_stardust/output_features)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
have [new features](/introduction/develop/explanations/what_is_stardust/output_features)
```

that aim to make the Stardust ledger more flexible and give the users more

> than [simple transactions](https://wiki.iota-community.org/shimmer/introduction/develop/explanations/ledger/simple_transfers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
than [simple transactions](/introduction/develop/explanations/ledger/simple_transfers).
```

### Metadata

> The [metadata](https://wiki.iota-community.org/shimmer/introduction/develop/explanations/what_is_stardust/output_features#metadata)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [metadata](/introduction/develop/explanations/what_is_stardust/output_features#metadata)
```

feature allows you to store any piece of data within an output. However, there are size constraints as
transactions are limited in size. This is hardly an issue as you can slice data into manageable chunks.

### Sender

> The [sender](https://wiki.iota-community.org/shimmer/introduction/develop/explanations/what_is_stardust/output_features#sender)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [sender](/introduction/develop/explanations/what_is_stardust/output_features#sender)
```

feature lets you define a sender address within the output. You could combine this feature
with [metadata](#metadata) to create verified data sources.

### Issuer

> The [issuer](https://wiki.iota-community.org/shimmer/introduction/develop/explanations/what_is_stardust/output_features#issuer)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [issuer](/introduction/develop/explanations/what_is_stardust/output_features#issuer)
```

feature is quite similar to the [sender feature](#sender), but it is only available when you mint an NFT.
Artists can use this feature to add a verified Issuer to the NFT and protect buyers and traders from counterfeits.

### Tag

> The [tag](https://wiki.iota-community.org/shimmer/introduction/develop/explanations/what_is_stardust/output_features#tag)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [tag](/introduction/develop/explanations/what_is_stardust/output_features#tag)
```

feature is similar to the metadata features, but it aims to serve a different purpose. Though both features allow you to
store data in an output, tags can be indexed. This means you could map data [metadata](#metadata) from
a [verified sender](#sender).

:::tip Stardust Ledger Anatomy

You can find a more detailed description Stardust Ledger in

> the [Stardust Protocol docs](https://wiki.iota-community.org/shimmer/introduction/develop/welcome).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the [Stardust Protocol docs](/introduction/develop/welcome).
```

---
description: 'Stardust introduces changes to the UTXO model, which allow for new output types, features, and unlock
conditions.'
image: /img/iota-wiki.png
keywords:

- explanation
- shimmer
- outputs
- unlock conditions
- features
- output types

---

# Output Types and Features

> Stardust introduces [changes to the UTXO model](/introduction/develop/explanations/what_is_stardust/rethink_utxo) that
> make it possible for outputs novel [output types](#output-types),  [unlock conditions](#unlock-conditions) and [features](#features).

Reviewer 2: Not sure what the intended sentence is. Probably something like:

```suggestion
Stardust introduces [changes to the UTXO model](/introduction/develop/explanations/what_is_stardust/rethink_utxo), introducing novel [output types](#output-types),  [unlock conditions](#unlock-conditions), and [features](#features).
```

Reviewer 2: Could we include a small part of the explanation of outputs being linked to, so we don't necessarily need to navigate to another page to understand outputs at least at a basic level?

Author: the link is to the line directly below.

Reviewer 2: Yeah but it doesn't really tell what outputs are, only what types of outputs there are. The concept of an output is not explained.

Reviewer 2: But I'm fine merging this and opening a separate issue for this if you are ok with that?

Author: yup, that's the main issue here. Thanks!

## Output Types

### Basic Output

The simplest output is the basic output. At the minimum, you will need to specify an address and amount of tokens. However, you can customize this basic output to include a variety of [features](#features) and [unlock conditions](#unlock-conditions).

### NFT Output

You can mint NFTs by creating NFT outputs and sending an [NFT transaction](/introduction/develop/explanations/ledger/nft). You can define immutable metadata and a [verified issuer](#issuer) while you create it.

### Alias Output

An [alias](/introduction/develop/explanations/ledger/alias) output is essentially a UTXO state machine that stores the state second layer smart contract chains and allows for two controllers, which can be rotated and create custom native tokens linked to the alias address.

### Foundry Output

You can create a foundry output to control the supply of your [native tokens](/introduction/develop/explanations/ledger/foundry).

> ## Unlock Conditions

Reviewer 2: Maybe add a small introduction what an unlock condition is.
